It's the side three of the Bill Self-Interview.
Okay, we're back to where?
Pope?
Right.
You had said earlier... Oh, these were some of the high spots.
I'll go Tom's comment.
Moby Dick.
Mein Kampf.
Autographed.
Can I see Hitler's signature?
Yeah.
That's Moby.
Oh, I get it now.
Pretty great.
Is the Hitler's signature?
I do.
Lookit, that's it.
You know where I got this?
New David Fowler.
What did you think of him?
Well, we parted company over Tamerlane.
That was him.
I never did any more business with him.
Actually, Bart was working at that time.
That's when I first met him.
I'll forgive him, but what's the difference?
I didn't feel he acted properly.
Up there on the top shelf is a rebound copy of Frankenstein, which is a book I would like to have in the original, but don't.
There's some kind of interesting items over here.
Here's the Austen collection.
Most of my Austens have been rebound, though I do have Emma in the original board.
which is great work, isn't it?
These are the Brontes, I think, the professor Shirley, Jane Eyre, and so forth, Wuthering Heights.
These are all George Eliot.
You said earlier that you rather immodestly feel you have the finest Dickens collection in the world.
I don't want to let that go without just bumping a little further on that.
Let me rephrase it and say I don't know that, you know, because I don't know what other people have.
I do know that we have all the major works in duplicates.
In other words, I don't have one copy of Great Expectations.
I have actually two copies.
The same way of Oliver Twist, the same way of Pickwick.
I have a very good Pickwick that belong to Kenyon.
I have three Pickwicks.
Two of them are really fine.
I have, you know, two Tale of Two Cities, two David Connors.
I have probably three or four.
I must have... Yes?
What about Mason up in Santa Barbara?
He has... He has a terrific Pickwick collection, but they haven't... I don't think they've met Mason.
I've heard of him.
Yeah.
Again, I specialize this now.
Only in Dickens.
But he has newspaper copies.
That type of thing as well.
And also, I think, as far as presentation copies, as I said, I have 23 or 24.
I'm not absolutely sure which, but I have an awful lot of the major titles.
And, as you know, presented to certain distinguished people.
Now, when we say, also, when we're talking about a preeminent Dickens collection, we're also talking about printed books.
Yes.
When you say Dickens question, you're not including manuscripts or two.
Well, I don't have a great manuscript.
But I don't know how many private collectors have manuscripts.
I have quite a few letters, which I can show you over there.
No, that's fine.
I have quite a few letters.
I have, as you know, the complete short story of the best authority, plus a few pages of public, plus a couple of pages of partial pages of Mrs. Gamm.
A few years ago, you probably know the story of the Haunted Man manuscript that the guy in New York bought Manning.
It was on the market for $300,000.
And it was offered to me, and I said, I'd love to have it, but I don't want to spend it for it.
And I passed.
Then Justin Schiller called me sometime later and said, well, we sold it.
And I said, well, congratulations.
Then Justin called me again later and said, it's back on the market, and would you be interested in it?
And I said, no, but why is it back on the market?
He said, I can't tell you.
But he said, the fellow who bought it is not in a position to pay for it.
It turned out the fellow who bought it was the guy that was accused of the murders in .
Yes.
He had acquired it, and he couldn't pay for it when he got arrested.
Then it came back on the market, and I think Manning bought it.
All of his stuff, you know, was going to be sold in October.
He's had trouble.
Do you know who he's selling with, Christie's or Sotheby's?
I know, it's with Sotheby's.
And this is not Speck.
I mean, I know this.
Dick's told me himself.
I'm having lunch with him next week.
I've had one interview with him, and... Too bad.
Well, he, uh, he, you know, Sotheby's a lot of money.
I think apparently he'd pay for it all.
I don't think we have to do all that.
Well, let me just show you a couple things, and then I'll be done.
I do want to take a picture of the two booklets in there, because that would be kind of nice.
This is a copy of Alice in Wonderland with illustrations for Arthur Rackham.
Oh, Rackham.
And he did the original on this.
This is an original.
This is like the Alice.
I might like a picture of that, I think.
He took the... This illustration is not in the book.
to go back to the uh to briefly to the uh yes uh so this individual made an offer and so they they they turned it down
And it was more than they had asked for.
I mean, this doesn't happen with failed savings of those.
They paid 850 for it, Ruben and Ruben.
Did you know Ruben?
I never knew him.
At one point, you know, his name was not known to any of us.
When I interviewed Ricky the British, he would tell me, you know, what the owner was.
It was a big secret, you know, all of a sudden.
Then we knew why, because it would make money to thought it.
Yes, yes.
I went through that library.
In fact, I knew John Maul.
When I was a boy, I was on the stage briefly with Thurston.
Did you?
And later, I met John Mulholland when I was in New York.
So I know the library.
Let's see where we want to get a book.
Yeah, did you know the Countess?
No.
Let's find a book from Tanya.
Well, let's the two together.
Let's see if I missed my head.
There's my head.
This might be the only, you know, that's kind of nice, yeah.
Is the liner right on that?
Yeah, that's just fine.
That's very nice.
It's kind of, that's going to be a very nice picture.
Bill, where is the Gad's Hill place at?
It's not easy to dig out.
It's down underneath, yeah.
It's about all the pictures they need, basically.
I think we're going to let these kind of people have their evening, Connie.
I'm going to see how Connie would remind you about their bio.
Okay, I'll get to you.
Connie, did you hear that?
My daughter, we taped that for our daughters.
Oh, really?
Yeah, they went berserk over it.
It's a good movie.
Yeah.
That was marvelous.
I didn't know that.
That was his...
That was quite a wonderful show.
We're going to do a sequel, you know.
She didn't realize.
I'm going to go with everything to my girl.
Here, let's look at this stuff.
She didn't realize that you had done that.
These are some original drawings.
Oh, that's it.
Oh, yeah, this is... These are original drawings from... This is also from Suzanne.
...of Playbill.
So, I'm sorry?
This is also from the Susan A. Sale.
These are all original drawings.
That's right.
Come on now, there you go.
These are all originals.
This was an interesting thing.
Now this, Kenny and I bought this together.
This was a... Oh, kind of a...
How can I pass that up?
This is a new song written by, I guess, Dickens, and then signed by Katherine Dickens, Annie Leach, Georgina Hogarth, your sister-in-law, Mary Dickens, Katie Dickens, John Leach, and T. Sparkle, which was Dickens' pseudonym for itself at that time.
What else we got here?
Original drawing from the old curiosity shop.
Well, we've got, I tell you, it's endless in terms of drawing right there.
That looked like it could be up there.
This is an original Playbill, if I remember whether it's the one I'm thinking of.
No, this isn't the one.
I've got one where Dickens has written in, who played all the parts, and they're all signed.
Kenyon was funny.
When he had an overlapping, he collected both Quickshank and Dickens.
And he said, I want you to know that anything that's... I'm putting everything that was joined.
I mean, Quickshank and Dickens is part of the Dickens' collection.
He's a Quickshank.
He smoked a pipe like chimps.
Is that it?
I think that could be it.
This would be a good background to Sarah.
Tell me what a producer does on Sarah.
Well, did you conceive this idea?
This is when they sold the Gantua place, Dickens' home and camp.
Has the collecting ever come into your work, by the way?
No, not really.
Not really.
This is an interesting thing, Tony.
This is the... This is Gad's Hill Place, and it shows the house and guidance.
Yeah, go ahead.
I'm focusing.
Tony can have a picture taken.
Right.
Sarah was... This is the house.
I asked them about Sarah, just for a little... Well, Sarah was a little unique in that Glenn Close brought the project to me.
What happened is that she had recorded the book
on an audio tape for children.
And she loved it.
She went to her agent and said, do you think it could be sold as a television movie?
And he said, no.
It's too soft.
It'll never get on a network.
So the only chance she had was to sell it to an advertiser.
And she said, how do we sell it to an advertiser?
And the agent said, well, Bill Self has a relationship with Hallmark.
I've been involved in eight or 10 Hallmarks.
And so I never met her.
And her agent called me and said, well, I fly to New York to meet in Flint.
Thanks.
Oh, yeah, this is our daughter and her two.
This is our daughter, Barbara, George, her husband, Tally, and Maggie, and Glenn.
So I flew to New York, and I met with Glenn, and we formed a 50-50 partnership, and so she and I owned it together.
And it's a terrific thing for me.
Oh, I enjoyed it so much.
The children, everyone was sorry.
I mean, it's the top of the floor.
We recorded it.
Well, we are going to, but I don't record anything.
It's up for some, I think it wins some enemies.
I hope so.
Oh, sure.
It was so moving.
And I think it told you a lot for children today.
How the people persevered.
Oh, the children's responses went terrific.
You know why Hallmark got it?
It's a funny thing.
I never thought of it when they were, uh,
when I presented it to the Hallmark people, what they liked about it, it was a good stepmother.
They said, there aren't many stories about good stepmothers.
There are a lot of stepmothers in the world, and a lot of them are aligned.
And they said, this is a good stepmother.
Well, just the typical story of the stepmother is she's always evil.
Yeah.
You know?
She was wonderful.
I'm trying to acquire for Hallmark, a book quite like Sarah, in a way, called The Education of Little Tree.
You know what I mean?
It's a book, Little Tree is an Indian boy who is raised by his grandparents.
And they are uneducated and everything else, but they have great wisdom and love and understanding and everything else.
It's a wonderful book.
It had just great reviews.
And there must be seven or eight people trying to buy actual movies.
I'm trying to get it, and Hallmark is backing me.
They're putting up the money.
And so I hope together.
Did you come to Hollywood as an actor?
Yeah.
I was in about 35 movies, something like that.
Well, I'll show you something kind of interesting, since you were a photographer.
We looked for a painting there that we could afford, couldn't find one.
And finally, Peggy had the idea of taking a, that's a 35mm shot that I did at Monet's house.
I was going to say, it looks like a Monet.
We hid it at Monet's house.
And Peggy blew it up.
What's that?
I promised Connie a poster.
Do you have one?
No, no, no, no, no, no.
For the children?
This is ours.
We had framed it.
That would be wonderful.
Would you sign it?
Oh, sure.
These posters, I have sent a few out to kids here.
See, this is the same picture.
This is the picture of the poster.
But this was some...
This is what Hallmark... Yeah, that's the press kit.
We got that at... One of the, you know, press cuts.
See, but it's just... And this... This was in a late... Self-styled company.
Well, this is the slide.
This is our son that produced it.
And Bill and Barbara Farbray have taken the slide when they split it.
I just want to write down... Do you want to get a copy of that?
That's May 25th.
That's not hard to remember.
That's my birth.
26th.
Sunday, May 26th.
The Dayton News.
This year or last year?
This year.
May 26th.
1991.
Dayton News.
I've got to write him a note.
Thanks.
And on the back.
They were very thoughtful and put the continuation on the back of the same page.
Okay.
I'll call him in.
We stopped watching TV after these after we don't see these any longer.
The M.A.S.H.
series, my God.
Eleni?
Nick Cage is a very close personal friend of ours.
I said North Grafton.
We live about a half a mile from each other.
We know him very well.
We were in Greece.
We were in Spain with him.
And then we were also East when they had a premiere back then.
So we know Nick a little bit.
Nick and Joan, I just showed him two days ago.
That was such a nice story.
Our daughter, this is her third article.
When they were doing Sarah, she was visiting, so she took a picture of the windmill and wrote the article.
And her little 14-year-old, they used a picture, a snapshot of the house, and they gave her credit back in the article.
It was quite a nice one.